       Murali Krishnan	
email: murali24@yahoo.com  phone: 408-836-9467 

---------------------------------------------------------------------
OBJECTIVES 

I am seeking a senior level software engineering position where I can
apply my skills in design and development. I have developed expertise
in software production from specification and design, through
development, to testing and deployment. I want to work in a group
where team members leverage each other's talents, and for a company
that is dedicated to delivering quality software. I am seeking a
position with a high level of responsibility, and one which will
allow me to exercise technical leadership.  

---------------------------------------------------------------------
EMPLOYMENT HISTORY 

IONA Technologies Inc., Santa Clara, CA
Senior Engineer
December 1999 - August 2002
Note: I was originally employed by Netfish Technologies, which was
eventually acquired by IONA Technologies in May 2001. 

I was a senior member of the infrastructure group which developed the
core functionality of Collaborate, one of the company's software
products. Collaborate is a platform for (XML) standards-based
business to business document exchange, and is a large Java
application run in an application server. I was the primary designer
for several features and contributed to the development of many other
product modules. 

I was the principle designer and developer for the Trading Partner
Management module. I collected requirements from all users of this
module, implemented the functionality (including DB persistence), and
established automated tests for the module which ensured robustness
and quality. 

I designed a system to monitor system resource saturation and perform
inbound data throttling. This was a generalized framework which
allowed many different modules to contribute to a system-wide
determination of 'saturation', and then used this flag to gracefully
reject inbound documents until resources returned to availability.
After determining the need for this feature through my own
observations of system performance under heavy load, I proposed it to
the technical leads and it was accepted. 

I developed a framework for performance measurement. This simple,
non-intrusive functionality used the system clock and correlated all
the units of work performed by multiple threads. It produced a simple
time-line report which allowed throughput to be measured in the
highly threaded system. I identified the need for this functionality
and I designed the entire framework, which became the standard
measurement tool for the performance measurement/improvement
initiative. 

In addition to my primary software development responsibilities, I
designed the software build system. I participated in the design of
the automated unit test system and was a principle contributor in the
evaluation, measurement, and improvement of the product performance.
Because of my system-wide knowledge and general programming skills, I
was often enlisted to address critical bugs. 

I was a principle developer for the team implementing a business
registry for XMLBus, the company's Web Services product. I developed
an implementation of the JAXR API, which was then exposed as a Web
Service. 

I briefly worked with the consulting group where my responsibilities
included installing/configuring the software at customer sites,
interfacing and supporting customers, and designing and executing
training classes. 

Tympani Development Inc., Sunnyvale, CA
Senior Engineer
April 1997 - December 1999

I was a principle architect and developer for the Tympani Atlas
Server, a server-centered Internet information management tool and
corporate portal. Atlas is a multiuser environment where individuals
can download Internet information and import unstructured data, then
process and filter the information, and share it with other users in
the organization. I was involved in all stages of development from
the initial design through the deployment as a commercial software
package. 

I was responsible for a significant part of the server development
(C++), which is integrated with a Versant Object Database and the
Apache web server. I was fully responsible for the design and
development of the Java applet component of the user interface. I
developed the installation and configuration scripts for the Unix
version of the product, and served as the primary point of contact
for customers using the Unix version. 

I was the primary designer and developer of a separate extranet
management tool, which was a spinoff of the Atlas Server. 

In addition to the design of Atlas itself, I developed automated
procedures and scripts (Perl) for testing and release packaging. 

Lockheed Martin Missiles and Space, Palo Alto, CA
Software Engineer
August 1993 - April 1997 

I was the primary developer responsible for the design and
implementation (C++) of an uncertainty reasoning logic module of an
autonomous control logic software package for unmanned underwater
vehicles. 

I designed and implemented (Smalltalk) a software package that
enables an end user to graphically lay out a test mission and
generate the resulting data input for simulation. 

I designed and implemented (Smalltalk) a software package that
presents raw data generated by simulation tests in a processed
(graphical and quantitative) format. This tool allowed system
engineers to evaluate simulation data more quickly and accurately,
thus speeding the development cycle, and earned a departmental award.


I coordinated a software testing policy and implemented (Perl
scripts) an automated testing procedure for the system software. The
scripts allowed development engineers to run simulation tests
themselves rather than relying on testers to schedule them. This led
to a significant increase in productivity and earned a departmental
award. 

I was rated as the top performer in department at my experience
level. 

University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign 
Teaching Assistant 
January 1991 - May 1993

I instructed groups of 20 to 40 students in introductory computer
science. I reviewed and edited course material in an elementary
numerical methods class. My responsibilities also included
supervising the work of two undergraduate graders and designing
programming assignments, quizzes, and exams. 

---------------------------------------------------------------------
SKILL SET 

I have worked with a wide variety of programming languages and
software packages. The list below represents the areas of my most
recent exposure, and is not meant to be comprehensive. I have a
preference for objected oriented design because it inherently creates
a decoupled, modular framework, which is critical for group
development. The development of automated procedures is of particular
interest to me, and in all assignments, I have taken the initiative
to develop time-saving scripts. 

Languages: Java, C/C++, Smalltalk, HTML, XML, SQL, Internet protocols
(HTTP, FTP, SMTP) 
Operating Systems: Unix (Solaris, Linux), Windows 
Tools: Perl, ant/make, JUnit, ClearCase, JDBC, application servers,
Oracle DB, Cloudscape DB 
Methodologies: Extreme Programming, Design Patterns   

---------------------------------------------------------------------
EDUCATION 

M.S., 1993, Computer Science, University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign. 

B.S., 1991, Computer Engineering, University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign, graduation with honors.  
---------------------------------------------------------------------
